[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: Let's get into
an object oriented programming,
what do you say?
So when Brendan Eich designed JavaScript,
he was very strongly influenced by a paper
that he read about the self project.
And the self project was into
prototypes not into classes.
And he thought, wow that's pretty neat.
So he decided to put that in his language
but he didn't fully understand it or
have confidence in it.
So he came up with something
kind of intended to
be more classical thinking that
the classical guys would like it better.
So this is the original intended model for
how you were supposed to use JavaScript.
So we're gonna make a Gizmo.
That's our Gizmo constructor function.
We'll pass in an ID and
we'll create a property
of the object with an, that is named ID,
which will get that value.
And we want our gizmos to
inherit a t0String method.
So the way you do that is use
a gizmo.prototype.toString = function.
In that function implements
the toString method.
And the Java programmers looked at
this and said, what the hell is that,
I mean this is awful looking that
what's this .prototype crap?
Why you leaking your stuff and
nothing's contained in anything, right?
You want to have your class have some
integrity, like it's wrapped in something.
And this has its guts
spilled all over the place.
This is just really awful.
But this is how Brendan thought
the language was going to work.
So let me diagram this for you, so
you can see what's actually going on.
So this is that code,
put up on the screen,
new gizmo is how we make the instance.
So this is the instance of the gizmo,
we see the ID property that
the constructor put in it.
This is the gizmo function because in
this language functions are objects,
so they can also have properties.
Every function is born
with a prototype property,
just in case it's going to be used
as a method or as a constructor.
And the gizmo.prototype is this object.
This is gizmo.prototype and
it contains these fields.
This is the toString method
that we assign there.
And the system also has the object
function that's the constructor of all
objects.
And we've already talked
about object.prototype,
that's the thing that all
object literals inherit from.
So we can add a constructor link here.
The constructor property contains
a reference to the constructor, so
gizmo.prototype.constructor is gizmo.
And similarly
object.prototype.constructor is object.
You can even go around that loop as many
times as you want,
>> Douglas Crockford: But
the important thing is the delegation
link, the inheritance link.
So our instance inherits
from gizmo.prototype and
gizmo.prototype inherts
from object.prototype.
So if I ask my instance for an ID,
ID we find it here, we return the string.
If I ask my instance for it's tooS method,
it goes I don't have one,
he's got one so we return this function
as though It were part of this object.
And if we ask for its foo property,
he doesn't have one,
he doesn't have one, he doesn't have one,
It's undefined, okay?
So that's how Brendan thought
you're going to use this language.
And there are some good ideas in here,
but it's kind of a mess but
you got some idea about what
JavaScript is actually doing now.
So the new prefix, if it had been
implemented as a method instead of
as an operator, this is what it would do.
It would create a new object,
which inherits from
the functions.prototype property.
And it will then call the method passing
in that object, binding it to this,
and getting a result and that result
is probably what's gonna get returned.
>> Douglas Crockford: And again,
this is kind of a mess, so.
But we haven't inherited much yet, so
let's reexamine this
thinking about inheritance.
So if we replace the original
prototype object,
we can then inherit
another object's stuff.
So that made no sense.
So let's look at an example
try to figure this out.
So we're going to make a Hoozit a Hoozit
is something that will inherit from Gizmo,
okay?
So we've got a Hoozit
constructor like before.
And we're gonna replace hoozit.prototype
with an instance of Gizmo
and then we'll add an additional method.
We're gonna add a test
method to our new prototype.
And the Java guys looked at this and
said what the hell is that?
I mean we thought the other one was bad,
but holy cow,
that's how you write extends.
Are you serious?
This is just, this is horrible and
this is absolutely horrible.
So let's diagram it, let's look
at what's actually going on here.
So here's our instance of Hoozit.
This is the Gizmo function that
we had before in Gizmo.prototype.
And it was our Hoozit
function in Hoozit.prototype.
But we replace Hoozit.prototype
with this new instance of Gizmo.
So when we add the delegation links.
We've got that inheriting from that,
which inherits from that,
and that will inherit from
object.prototype, but I left that one out.
So if we ask our new instance for
its ID, we get it there.
If we ask for its test method, no,
there it is, we'll return that method.
If we ask for it's toString method, go no,
no, there it is, we'll return that one.
If we ask for it's constructor property,
we'll go, no, no, yes.
Except it's a gizmo, oops,
>> Douglas Crockford: So which I
think is not that bad because you should
never ask anything what it inherits from.
You should only be asking
what can you do and
we should judge our objects by
the character of the contents.
So again, it's, that's how it works.
And one source of confusion
is that sometimes we
consider this to be the prototype link.
But this one is also called .prototype.
So having two pointers, which
are designated as the prototype pointer,
which are completely different.
And distinct is certainly
a source of confusion as well.
But this is how most of the people who
are writing the JavaScript are using
the language.
They are doing this and they are
miserable, they are hating their lives.
And they are hating JavaScript and
they're angry and bitter.
And wishing that their favorite
language was doing better because why
have they come to this writing
classes in JavaScript.
It's just awful.
So yeah, so putting them together,
it's just there's awful stuff here.
There is just the head of ugliness and
in the lack of soothing syntax.
We're not getting enough code reuse.
For example, both constructors
create an ID property, but
they both have to repeat that and
that it's not code reuse.
So there are lots and
lots of JavaScript libraries in the world.
And most of them recognize that there
is something seriously lacking here.
And so they'll provide some mechanism for
sugarcoating this sort of classical system
in order to make it a little bit nicer.
For example, they might do something like
create a function called new_constructor.
And it will make constructor functions.
And I will pass into it the thing
that I want to inherit from.
So I want to extend object,
I want to extend gizmo.
And I'll pass in a constructor
function and I'll pass in
an object containing the methods that
I want the instances to inherit.
So it doesn't look like Java, but at least
you can recognize the components, right?
And so
there is something nicer about this.
And the surprising thing
about this function
is that that's the entire function.
So JavaScript is such
an amazingly expressive language,
such a powerful language.
That one little piece of
code can radically transform
the appearance of the language,
which is pretty extraordinary,
not a lot of languages can do that.
Do I recommend this approach?
No I don't, Even though this is clearly
better than using the language as
intended, you're still stuck
in this classical paradigm.
Except you're trying to do
classical programming in a language
without a type system.
And that is really really hard.
Yeah, that classes provide
a lot of brittleness.
And without the constant type
checking to keep you honest,
it's really easy for things to go bad.
And in JavaScript,
things go bad very quickly all the time.
And that's why people who are trying
to write in this model, in JavaScript,
are so angry at the language.
They're constantly in a sense of rage.